
http://hdl.handle.net/1828/6582

## Abstract

Collaboration is a vital skill in today’s knowledge economy. Regrettably, many learners lack the regulatory skills required for complex collaborative tasks. In particular, groups struggle to construct shared task perceptions of collaborative tasks on which to launch engagement. Thus, the purpose of this dissertation was to examine how computer supported collaborative learning (CSCL) tools can be leveraged to support shared task perceptions for regulating collaboration. Because investigating this process brings forth a wide array of methodological challenges, a second purpose of this dissertation was to explore how CSCL tools can be used as a methodological solution for capturing this process. Towards this end, research unfolded across one conceptual paper and two empirical studies: (a) Miller & Hadwin (2015a) extended work conceptualizing self-, co-, and shared-regulation in successful collaboration and drew on this theoretical framework to propose ways in which CSCL tools can be designed to support and research regulation of collaboration; (b) Miller, Malmberg, Hadwin, & Järvelä (2015) investigated the processes that contributed to and constrained groups’ construction of shared task perceptions in a CSCL environment in order to inform further refinement of supports; (c) Miller & Hadwin (2015b) examined the effects of tools providing different levels of individual and group support on construction of shared task perceptions and task performance. Together, findings revealed the potential of blending pedagogical tools to support shared task perceptions with research tools for examining and understanding regulation. In particular, findings evidenced shared task perceptions to be a complex and challenging social phenomenon and shed light on ways in which CSCL tools may prompt and promote this process. In addition, data generated by learners as they interacted with CSCL supports created valuable opportunities to capture shared task perceptions as they unfolded in the context of meaningful collaborative tasks across the individual and group level.
